---
layout: post
title: 5 Manga I started reading recently
---

One of my greatest motivations to set up this little blog was a desire to share
the media that I am consuming. I have several times started lists of manga
recommendations which have then wasted away in word documents on my computer.

So I decided to create a place where I could share these lists and any other
items that I work on that I want to share. Some of those lists will make it to
this blog eventually, but I wanted to start this new blog with a new list. A
new list about new things, or at least new things.

For the last few years I have had a library of ~100 manga that I am reading at
any given time. The list is in near constant flux as I drop or complete series
(usually the former) and pick up new ones. I am also using manga as a catch-all
term for comics largely from east asia as is my habit to do when talking about 
these as a group. I will use the language/country specific terms which I have
briefly explained in the below callout.

> **Manga**: Japanese manga are definitely the most well-known group so I shouldn't need to explain them.
> 
> **Manhua**: Chinese manhua are usually in colour and are read left-to-right.
> They are mixed between a traditional page based format and a scrolling 
> webtoon format
>
> **Manhwa**: Korean manhwa are also usually in colour and read left-to-right.
> They are almost always webtoons. They are also probably my favourite of the 3
> categories

Here are 5 manga which I have recently added to my library. They aren't the 5
most recently added but they are 5 from the most recent 10 that I wanted to
share.

## Where are you looking manager?

After an administrative mistake leads to our main character being temporarily
in the afterlife he becomes able to see the threads of fate. As it turns out
being able to see how a decision will change fate is incredibly useful for his
new job as a manager for actors.

I am a massive sucker for slice of life style manhwa and this is the latest I
have picked up. It definitely isn't brilliant but I find this a load of fun.
What I am looking for in a manhwa like this is a lightweight enjoyable read.

## Matagi Gunner

The biggest reason I decided not to just list the 5 most recently added manga 
in my library is because *Matagi Gunner* falls outside of that 5. Good e-sports
manga has been something that I have always struggled to find. Manhua and
Manhwa have been slightly better in that regard, although it wasn't until 
late last year when I came across *Double-Click* that I found something that 
I consider a true e-sports series. *Matagi Gunner* isn't quite that but I 
would consider it a better reflection of the reality of e-sports than more 
popular examples such as *King's Avatar*.

Matagi are traditional japanese hunters most notable for hunting bears. After 
the death of his wife one retured matagi finds playstation and with the 
assistance of a local electronics store employee starts playing a battle royale
game similar to *Apex Legends*. Due to his honed instincts as a hunter he
becomes incredibly good and starts competing with a team of other misfits.

## My Wife could be a Magical Girl

In a world where magical girls are actually real a former magical girl otaku
meets the girl he was obsessed with later in life and ends up marrying her.
Now, at 30 years old she announces she will make a comeback. This has some
major impacts on their marriage as it drags his otakuness to the fore. Overall,
this series is very wholesome so far even if it does hint that for adults the 
power of sexy times is more effective than the power of friendship.

## Gal can't be kind to an Otaku

This is far from the first rom-com I have read between a gal/gyaru and an otaku
(*My First Girlfriend was a Gal* and *Real no Heroine wa Iramasen* were 2 of 
the first). In fact, 90% of the plot beats in this series feel like things I
have seen before a dozen times or more. But I am a sucker these kinds of
romance/rom-com series and since finishing *Domestic na Kanojo* a couple of
years back I have made sure to have a few of these I am reading at any point.
With 2 having finished in the last couple of months and a 3rd looking like it
could be approaching the end I needed to top up my supply.

## Surviving as a Mage in a Magic Academy

It wouldn't be a true list of manga without an isekai. After finally finishing
his ph.D. the main character immediately gets hit by a truck and swears never
to go to another school. As you may have guessed from the title he is unable to
avoid that fate. Ths academy has a lich as the principle and forbids students
to leave the grounds. They also need to find there own food sources. This all
brings back the main characters post-grad trauma.

I love a good magic academy story and this is that. It also happens to be an
isekai where the main characters modern perspective is more important than
introducing some Japanese to a medieval european society.