---
layout: post
title: "Tigana"
tags:
    - review
    - book
---

Some years ago, I picked up a second hand copy of *Tigana* by Guy Gavriel Kay.
I read it and despite thoroughly enjoying the book forgot almost all about it.
Recently, I came across it mentioned on a list of great fantasy books and
recalled that I had really enjoyed it but remembered almost nothing of the
plot. As I was looking for my next audiobook to listen to during my commute I
decided to give it a reread (I am a chronic re-reader falling back to books I
have read/listened to a half dozen times when I am lacking something else that
has captured my attention). Whilst, I did recall some more of the plot as it
further developed it felt mostly like experiencing the story for the first 
time.

The peninsula of the Palm has been carved in 2 by the tyrants Brandin of Ygrath
and Alberico of Barbadior. None of the 9 provinces have suffered from this
conquest as much as Tigana. As punishment for the Prince of Tigana having slain
Brandin's son in battle, Brandin casts a powerful spell which erases the name
Tigana. The spell makes the name unable to be heard by anyone not born in
Tigana before the spell was cast (wizards are also immune due to their own 
magic). Years later, a band comprised mostly of those who were children at the
time of the invasion set out to free Tigana from its curse.

I have no idea why I didn't remember more about *Tigana* from the first time I
read it. The book has quickly become a favourite and I have been exploring the
rest of Guy Gavriel Kay's works. I finished *The Fionavar Tapestry* last week and have just started on *Under Heaven*. *The Fionavar Tapestry* had moments 
across the trilogy that were some of the most impactful I have read in a 
fantasy novel in a long time but overall I feel like the books were of a lower
level than *Tigana*. *Under Heaven* is looking very promising as well with its
Chinese-inspired setting being one of my favourite aesthetics already so the
personal appeal.

Perhaps my favourite quality of *Tigana* is that it ends strongly. Many books
have a washed out ending but *Tigana* resolves on a strong note, before a twist
in the final sentence that will completely change the way you see the final
chapter.

I highly recommend *Tigana* to anyone interested in fantasy, a long with exploring the rest of Guy Gavriel Kay's catalogue.