---
layout: post
title: "Domestic na Kanojo: The Greatest Trash Manga"
---

If I am going to use this blog to write about media I have consumed then
writing about this one was inevitable. To get it out of the way,
*Domestic na Kanojo* (aka *DomeKano* or *Domestic Girlfriend*) somehow manages
to make a really good manga out of a premise so trashy it wouldn't seem odd as
a porno plot. For the uninitiated here is the [MyAnimeList.net](https://myanimelist.net/manga/70941/Domestic_na_Kanojo) summary:

> Natsuo Fujii is in love with his teacher, Hina. Attempting to forget his feelings towards her, Natsuo goes to a mixer with his classmates where he meets an odd girl named Rui Tachibana. In a strange turn of events, Rui asks Natsuo to sneak out with her and do her a favor. To his surprise, their destination is Rui's houseâ€”and her request is for him to have sex with her. There's no love behind the act; she just wants to learn from the experience. Thinking that it might help him forget about Hina, Natsuo hesitantly agrees.
> 
> After this unusual encounter Natsuo now faces a new problem. With his father remarrying, he ends up with a new pair of stepsisters; unfortunately, he knows these two girls all too well. He soon finds out his new siblings are none other than Hina and Rui! Now living with both the teacher he loves and the girl with whom he had his "first time," Natsuo finds himself in an unexpected love triangle as he climbs ever closer towards adulthood.

## A slow start

I have a fairly long history with this series, at least as far as my history of
reading manga goes. Early 2018, as I am starting to get into reading manga a
have my first experience with *DomeKano*. Despite finding the premise pretty
shit I found some of the characters (read: Rui) compelling, if unrealistic.
Despite that I dropped the series after about 50 chapters, only just before
where I now consider the series to get good.

About 18 months later, the (awful) anime adaptation aired. In its 12 episodes
the anime only goes slightly beyond where I dropped the manga. I didn't get
past episode 3. The anime amplified the worst parts of the manga by making it
harder to just skip over some incredibly awkward moments in the earliest
chapters. But it also reminded me of why I had read those 50 or so chapters.
Eventually, I decided to give the manga another shot.

This time I got past where the anime ended and found that the parts of the
manga I hated fade into the background as a more compelling story took hold.
Despite that I nearly put down the manga several times feeling unable to 
continue for a while multiple times over the 276 chapters. But each time I came
back within a day and finished it within 2 weeks.

## The part I love

To me, *DomeKano* shines when the incest and student/teacher crap fades into
the background and the relationship between Rui and Natsuo is allowed to exist
beyond that and transform as they grow up from immature teenagers to proper
adults near the end. They both go through a lot of experiences over the course
of the manga and really feel like they have grown as characters by the end.
Its difficult to explain without spoilers, particularly since the starting line
is 50 chapters in but I came to really care about those 2 characters and have
an emotional response to the trials and tribulations of their lives and the
impact it would have on their relationship.

The side characters are also largely a great boon to the series giving colour
and life to the whole series. The relationships between those characters also
tend to be a lot more normal than those of the main 3 characters. In 
particular, the flamboyantly gay ex-yakuza coffee shop owner who listens and
advises on the troubles of all 3 of our main trio is an absolute delight.

## 3 things I hate

The problem with the synopsis of *DomeKano* is that inevitably focuses on what
I consider 2 of the 3 worst things in the series: the incest and the 
student-teacher relationship. If I were to write my own synopsis it would also
be similar because it is for better or worse what the manga is about. But as I
have already written I feel the series shines when the incest is effectively changed to star-crossed lovers (I don't believe it ever shines during the 
student-teacher phase and that's not just because Rui is the best girl).

And then there is the part I hate the most: the ending. I can forgive the spicy
premise as while it definitely turns many off it also certainly gets others to
give it a try. The ending, however, is just plain awful. Even before I had
finished the manga I was aware that the ending of the series was considered 
bad. I wasn't prepared for the absolute butchery of character and nonsensical
plot twists that marred the final 7 chapters. Years later, I still get annoyed
whenever I have the displeasure of recalling those final chapters. I don't want
to spoil anything but if you too read through this series I am sure you will
also want to scream at this ending. If that time ever comes I will gladly vent
with you.

## Final Thoughts

Part of the reason I am always so eager to recommend this manga is that I feel
that it is betrayed by its controversial premise. It isn't the best manga I've
read. It's not even the best romance manga I've read. It's probably the best
incest manga I've read but there isn't a lot of competition in that category.
I also really want to convince someone to actually read it.
