---
layout: post
title: "LCK Summer: Early Impressions"
tags:
    - esports
    - league of legends
---

Week 3 of LCK summer has just begun so I am giving my slightly belated first
impressions of how teams look so far. I've ordered these in reverse order of
spring standings after playoffs and included their record in the first 2 weeks.

## Nongshim Redforce
*1-3*

Nongshim have brought in 2 new players, challengers ADC **Jiwoo** and 2021 DRX
mid turned full-time streamer **Quad** (Formerly known as **SOLKA**). Both 
these signings are very weird. **Jiwoo** hasn't been bad. **Quad** is better 
than **FIESTA** was but is pretty much a cassiopeia one-trick. This team 
will probably be a bit stronger but don't look like they have an hopes of 
playoffs contention

## DRX
*0-4*

DRX have also replaced mid and adc promoting **Paduck** and **kyeahoo** from 
academy (tier 3). **Paduck** is a absolute madman and a joy to watch. The k in
**kyeahoo** is silent and he's looked alright. The thing is mid and adc weren't
really the issue with DRX. **Paduck** at least looks to work better with 
**Beryl** but it hasn't stopped the 2 time world champion from running it down.
Jungler **Croco** has also had quite the fall from grace this year. Please just
get **Rascal** on a better team next year.

## OK Savings Bank Brion
*1-3*

Full disclosure, I am not a *Broliever*. OK Savings Bank Brion a.k.a. OK BRO
have a new naming sponsor which has somehow managed to raise their meme-ability
level. They have also been playing around with moving up and down their mid and
support between their main and challengers rosters. The current iteration has
mid lane **Karis** switched out for **Ivory**. Imo **Karis** is definitely the
better player but has been struggling lately so giving him some time out in
challengers may be a good idea. There is little reason to think this team will
be any better. Yes they did get an upset against D+ Kia, but **Deft** was out
with COVID and BRO have a history of upsets against much stronger iterations of
that team.

## Kwangdong Freecs
*2-2*

KDF really started to pick it up towards the end of spring. With no changes to
the roster hopes are there they can continue that momentum. They went 2-0 in
week 1, then 0-2 in week 2 so results so far have been mixed. I do think this
team can contest for the 6th playoffs spot but the top 5 feel a fair bit above.

## Liiv Sandbox
*1-3*

LSB are the only playoffs team to have made a roster change bringing in veteran
ADC **Teddy** "The Fountain Laser". However, so much of their spring success
was effectively a miracle run. If they can replicate that magic, Teddy may be
the extra oomph they need to challenge the top 5. If they don't they may lose
that playoffs berth to one of the lower ranked teams.

## Dplus KIA
*3-1*

DK still have a great roster but it just doesn't quite work. **Canna** has been
really inconsistent in the top lane but the real issue is despite the pedigree
of their mid-jungle they have been unable to get much success out of it. In 
spring this team were only able to find success by snowballing bot. If they can
fix that they should challenge the top 3 but they currently feel a step behind.
Their matches so far haven't shown much as they've only faced the bottom 4, but
a loss to BRO when **Deft** was out with COVID isn't promising for their
ability to get stuff done on the top side.

## Hanwha Life Esports
*2-2*

Hanwha shouldn't have been in this 4th place spot. DK were better for most of
spring until fumbling in playoffs. I don't think HLE are a good team but the
sheer power of their roster carries them. **Clid** is more up and down than
ever but has incredible highs. **ZEKA** and **Kingen** need no introduction
when it comes to BO5 but are middling in regular season. **Viper** is insane.
**Life** has been showing a bit of a return to form so far in summer but this
roster is still so inconsistent.

## KT Rolster
*3-1*

KT have looked great for the start of summer and definitely have a chance of
preventing the 4th consecutive T1 v Gen.G finals. I think their level is
slightly below those 2 but not enough that they can't win on the day. 

*Disclaimer: no excitement was generated in the writing of this evaluation*

## T1
*3-1*

There's no really a lot to say about T1 at this point. Their roster hasn't
changed since the start of last year so theres little to comment on with their
potential. Their is some concern over their performance in big matches, a lot
of which has been directed at **Zeus** but I think the performance of **Faker**
in those matches also needs a critical eye.

## Gen.G
*4-0*

Gen.G have gotten off to an explosive start, taking down both KT and T1 in week
1 and continuing that streak with an admittedly much easier 2-0 against KDF and
NS. What has been really impressive is the performance of **Peyz** in these 
games. In spring, he proved he could carry if the team set him up to do so; So
far in summer, he has shown an ability to get stuff done by himself, even if
the rest of the map isn't going so well. **Peyz** has been well beyond what
anyone could expect of a rookie player and continues to defy expectations.
**Doran** on the other hand has had an above average number of ints in lane. So
far his teamfight performance has made up the difference but he really needs to
stabilise if the team wants a deep run at worlds.