---
layout: post
title: "Worlds Preview (LCK): Gen.G"
tags:
    - league of legends
    - 2023 Worlds
---

In anticipation of Worlds 2023 I wanted to give a quick rundown of the LCK
teams and their players focusing on history and signature picks. Starting with
the 1st seed (and first in my heart) Gen.G (After writing this I am ]
reconsidering whether I will do the other teams). I'll give some history of the
team and then the players with 3 signature picks based on what they've been
playing in summer and some pocket picks.

## Gen.G Team Overview
Gen.G and their predecessor Samsung make for one of the all time great LCK
franchises, only really outshadowed by T1. After acquiring MVP Ozone and Blue
in 2013 and re-naming them as Samsung White and Blue the org first made history
in 2014 getting podium finishes in all 3 splits of domestic competition then
winning worlds. 2014 was considered one of the highest levels of competition 
for Korean League and both teams were extremely strong for the whole year. 2015
would bring 2 changes that ended these teams: the abolishment of sister teams
and "The Great Korean Exodus". 2015 would see all 10 players move to China.

After a disastrous 2015, Samsung would return as Samsung Galaxy in 2016. After
a middling spring split they picked up a rookie ADC, Ruler, and moved ADC
CoreJJ to support. With this roster they would qualify for Worlds via a heroic
performance in the gauntlet. At Worlds they would make it to the finals,
finally falling to SKT T1 in 5 games. The next year, after qualifying for
Worlds in a similar fashion, they claimed revenge against SKT T1 in the finals
winning Worlds with a convincing 3-0 victory.

2018 would see Samsung step away from League of Legends and the team was
acquired by the newly formed Gen.G (then known as KSV). They would once again
qualify for Worlds through the Gauntlet. Unfortunately, the magic would run
out and the team failed to make it out of groups.

A rebuild in 2019 would see one of the worst performances in the franchises
history and would lead to the entire topside being replaced coming into 2020.
2020 spring would see the team place first in the regular season which
seeded them directly into the finals where they would fall to the newly
rebranded T1. After a disastrous MSC for the whole LCK, Gen.G were once again
able to claim a playoffs spot in summer. They would beat Afreeca Freecs ending
a streak of losing playoffs games which stretched back all the way to 2014.
Unfortunately, they fell to DRX in the semi-finals after a 3 hour pause
interrupted the series. This would land Gen.G once again in the Gauntlet where
they would defeat T1 to qualify for worlds where they would fall in quarters.

The same roster would continue into 2021 showing similar results fir both
splits. This caused them to get a deserved reputation for being one-dimensional
spawning a [legendary rant from LCK caster Chronicler](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uzN2rMueV8Y)
in the worlds semi final. Gen.G would ultimately lose that series 2-3 to
eventual champions EDG.

2022 would see another rebuild, keeping only franchise player and superstar ADC
Ruler and surrounding him with an all-star roster, including Chovy and Peanut,
alongside a new head coach in the form of former KT jungler Score who was just
returning from military service. This roster would make finals in both splits,
claiming victory in Summer and ending a domestic title drought that extended
back to Samsung Blue in Spring 2014. The team had a disappointing performance
at worlds.

2023 Gen.G was struck by a blow before getting to the starting blocks when ADC
Ruler, who had been on the team since debuting in 2016 decided to try his luck
in the LPL. In response Gen.G promoted Challengers ADC Peyz and picked up
support Delight from Brion to augment their existing topside. Despite doubts
Gen.G would upset T1 for the spring title then beat them again in summer for
the three-peat qualifying for Worlds as the 1st seed for the second year
running.

## Players

### Top - Doran
Doran has often been considered the weak link of the Gen.G roster but has done
a lot of work this year to shake off that reputation. 
[His stellar Gragas performance](https://youtu.be/YBmlwihasxs) in spring finals
was a massive part of Gen.G taking that series and after a slightly shaky start
to summer we saw a whole new Doran.

Doran debuted as the substitute top laner for Griffin, a team of rookies that
took the LCK by storm in 2018 and 2019. Doran got a reputation for being a very
skilled player that was held back by his emotions. Outside of an underwhelming
2021 KT roster Doran has usually been looked at as the weak link on the rosters
that he has been on. That is hardly an indictment of Doran considering the
strength of those rosters but it hasn't really been until this year that he has
looked like a stable well-performing top laner.

#### Signature Picks:
1. Jax
2. K'Sante
3. Gangplank

### Jungle - Peanut
Peanut: the captain, the jungler, [the nut god](https://youtube.com/clip/Ugkx8i4y0igAB3OQBgch6b7izaZ3cPqyzwlV?si=oWv4gRR3C215lzYJ).
Peanut is one of the most veteran players in the LCK and among the most
decorated. 2x MVP, 2x Finals MVP, 2017 MSI Champion, and 6x LCK champion, the
most of any jungler and tied 2nd place behind Faker. Since debuting on NaJin
in 2015, Peanut has played 7 different teams. He joined Gen.G initially in 2019
for a single year, then re-joined in 2022. To date Gen.G is the only team he
has been on for more than a year.

Always an incredibly talented player, Peanut has become increasignly
intelligent about his plays, pathing and shotcalling. Many credit this to head
coach Score, a legendary jungler in his own right known for those very things
when he was active. There have been some concerns that Peanut can't quite match
up on more mechanically intensive picks but this split he has picked them up
more often than he did in 2022 or even spring split alleviating some of those
concerns.

#### Signature Picks:
1. Maokai
2. Poppy
3. Kha'Zix

### Mid - Chovy
Chovy hardly needs an introduction. One of the "Big 4" LCK midlaners who have
had near absolute control of the upper ranks of the LCK since 2019 (only 1
midlaner not from that group has qualified for worlds in the last 4 years).
Known for a lane dominant playstyle and being the god of CSing, Chovy also
became infamous for being too lane and farm focused to the detriment of his
team.

Since joining Gen.G Chovy has moved slowly away from that playstyle and has
shown immense success at joining up with Peanut in the jungle to make proactive
plays. The 1-2 punch of the mid-jungle duo has become the backbone of how Gen.G
plays. The Church of Chovy is always open for new worshippers.

#### Signature Picks:
1. Yone
2. K'Sante
3. Taliyah
4. Ahri
5. Tristana

### ADC - Peyz
When Gen.G announced that they would be promoting a rookie to take the place of
one of the greatest ADCs of all time, many were understandably skeptical. Their
was a lot of hype behind the 17 year old prodigy but not even the most die-hard
LCK Challengers fans foresaw the beast the Peyz would become. Within his first
few weeks he solidified himself as a brilliant team fighter with perfect
positioning and movement. In early 2023, Gen.G would devote a considerable
amount of resources to get their inexperienced bot duo through lane in a meta
full of lane bullies. If the game got to the teamfighting stage on even footing
then Gen.G would usually close it out through their top notch teamfighting.

As 2023 progressed, the bot duo progressed and the meta also became less about
winning lane hard and they forged themselves into what most see as the
strongest bot lane currently in the LCK. Some of this is due to how the engage
support meta is much better for delight but Peyz's growth is also phenomenal.
Peyz himself made 3rd All-Pro in spring and 2nd in summer and came away with a
unanimous rookie of the year.

#### Signature Picks:
1. Aphelios
2. Zeri
3. Kai'sa

### Support - Delight
Delight was the other newcomer to Gen.G having debuted in 2021 on BRO. Despite
that team being weak overall, Delight was a really promising player and had
also briefly played on Gen.G's second string roster alongside Peyz so had less
skepticism levered towards his joining than his lane partner. But much like
Peyz, Delight has exceeded all expectations.

Delight looked okay at the beginning of the year, but it was once the meta
shifted to engage that he really started to shine. Spearheaded by his legendary
Rakan, a champion he had a over 50% winrate on even on Brion (despite having 
a 37% winrate for the 2 years he was on that roster) Delight is now considered
an elite level support and for many the strongest part of the Gen.G botlane.

#### Signature Picks:
1. Rakan
2. Alistar
3. Leona


## Conclusions
I'm really hyped to see what this iteration of Gen.G can do at Worlds. I think
that despite losing Ruler and Lehends they have somehow upgraded and look
stronger than ever. I would love to see them match up against Ruler on JDG even
if my heart will be torn.

For the other LCK teams I will probably only preview them if they make it to
the knockout stage and their previews will likely be much shorter as this has
taken a couple of hours all up.