---
layout: post
title: "13A Runeterra: Creating Icons"
tags:
    - rpg
    - 13th age
    - project
    - 13a runeterra
---

As a personal side project I have started to convert content from the world of 
Runeterra to 13th Age. 13th Age is my current favourite F20 RPG, putting a 
twist on the classic D&D formula. While I don't intend to publish any of this I
intend to write little design blogs here with my reasoning on what I've created
and perhaps some snippets of content where it complies with relevant fan
content policies.

## Exploring Icons

One of the key mechanics of *13th Age* is icon relationships. Icon
relationships are links that PCs have to powerful figures and organisations in
the world. *13th Age* contains 13 of these icons for its default setting. An 
alternate version based off runes is presented in the *13th Age Glorantha* 
setting guide. While I considered adapting the runes system, the world of 
Runeterra, by the nature of its source, is full of larger than life characters.
I aimed to find 13 characters, primarily focusing on champions, who could fit
as icons. I also tried to use generic titles in the style of the original 
icons.

## Region based Icons

I knew that I wanted to have icons from across the different regions of 
Runeterra. The 
[official universe page](https://universe.leagueoflegends.com/en_AU/regions/)
lists 13 regions. A perfect fit you may say. However, Ixtal currently lacks any
true "leader" characters as some of the other regions and the universe page
also splits Piltover & Zaun which doesn't really reflect how important they are
individually. Ultimately I decided to start with the 10 regions in 
*Legends of Runterra* + the Void and build from there.

### Bandle City - The Bandle City Mayor

I really wanted to have some Bandle City representation as they represent a
unique and chaotic force in Runeterra. However, none of the yordle champions
resemble a true leader not to mention the cat. I quick read through the Bandle
City *LoR* cards highlighted Bandle City Mayor, an unelected official that
stands around, makes speeches, and twirls a quite magnificent mustache. None of
the yordles seem to question his leadership so why should I.

### Bilgewater - Captain Fortune

With her defeat of Gangplank, Miss Fortune is apparently now the Queen of 
Bilgewater. The only alternative that makes sense out of the Bilgewater
champions is Gangplank who would serve just as well but the current state of 
the lore does lean more towards Miss Fortune. I'm still undecided on the name;
none of the official titles really fit. I may go for "The Pirate Queen" even
though it isn't an official title.

### Demacia - The King of Demacia

The newly crowned King Jarvan IV is the natural choice for Demacia. Whilst
there are different factions within Demacia they all centre around the throne
so the man who sits on it is the natural choice for Demacia. This isn't a title
officially linked to J4 but that is mostly because his lore page is outdated.

### Freljord - The Warmother

There were a few contenders for the Freljord spot so I chose to go with the
most iconic (pun kinda intended). Technically, I think both Ashe and Sejuani
have this title for their respective tribes but Ashe is definitely more well
known by it. Ashe is also making an effort to unite the Freljord which makes
her the best candidate for its leader in my eyes. Freljord really feels like it
could fit its own set of icons between the multiple factions and powers of the
north.

### Ionia - The Enlightened One

Alternatively, "The Spirit of Ionia". As the reincarnated Spirit of Ionia,
Karma both is a natural choice as well as embodying a very different kind of
leader than any of the other regions (with the exception of maybe Targon).
It is important that Icons represent different philosophies so that players can
find one that fits them the best so the more spiritual nature of Karma feels
like a perfect fit to me

### Noxus - The Grand General

Swain is the current best fit for many of the same reasons as the other leaders
of the more civilised regions. I do think there are others that could contest
this position. If Mordekaiser were to return and take up residence in the Iron
Bastion once more then he would likely take top spot. Leblanc also deserves a
shout for manipulating Noxus from the shadows.

### Piltover & Zaun - The Man of Progress

Piltover & Zaun are both filled with leaders in some form but the oligarchy of
Piltover and lawlessness of Zaun both defy a single leading figure. Ultimately,
I settled for Jayce as the best pick available but I think that P&Z would be
better served by its own icon list. I will probably do one of 7 icons at some
point soon.

### Shadow Isles - The Chain Warden

Having usurped the mist from Viego at the conclusion of the events of Sentinels
of Light, Thresh is the natural choice for the Shadow Isles in the current
state of the lore. I would probably class Viego as a fallen icon. Thresh also
provides a truly evil icon which was something only otherwise represented by
The Void. Unlike the void options, Thresh is more grounded in humanity which
makes him a more understandable threat.

### Shurima - The Emperor of the Sands

Shurima, your emperor has returned. While his control of Shurima is lacking 
(read: effectively non-existant) the competition is also lacking. Xerath has
also proclaimed himself emperor but has returned just as recently with far less
of a claim. Nazuma is an isolated city-state with little known about its ruling
class. Ixtal is a similar case if you wan to bundle them in with Shurima.
Rek'sai probably controls the largest region of Shurima of anyone but really
doesn't have anyway for players to interact with her faction outside of being 
eaten.

### Targon - The Aspect of the Sun

That Targon's icon would be an aspect was pretty obvious. Leona fit the best to
me since the Solari basically control the populated part of the mountain. Of
the 6 aspects I know about, at least 3 were Solari before making the climb
(Patheon, Leona, Diana). The Lunari are currently in hiding and the other
aspects don't have a sizeable faction to speak of.

### Void - The Empress of the Void

The void offers a few options. The Watchers created the void and were its 
original masters but they are sealed away. Vel'Koz is one of the oldest
voidlings and is the closest thing to a representative of the Watchers.
Malzahar with his cult is a major way in which players could interact with the
Void as a less than existential threat. The best option, in my opinion, is
Bel'Veth. She is more human than any of the other voidlings and seems to have
hijacked control of the void with only Vel'Koz really resisting. I think she is
also involved with Malzahar's cult in some way.

## The Final Two

For the last 2 icons I tried to tackle archetypes laid out in the *13th Age* 
icons that weren't really fulfilled by this list. I am happy with both choices
but will acknowledge one is a bit out of left field.

### The Deceiver

I wanted a mysterious option as a counterpart to the Dragon Empire's Prince of
Shadows. MF mostly fills the crime portion of this but there isn't really an
icon for sneaky bastards. While league has no shortage of assassin types, I
felt that LeBlanc fit better into the fabric of the world since she seems to
have her fingers in every pie.

### The Troll King

The Orc Lord in *13th Age* gives a more external and wild threat that is hard
to find in league champions. The best option I could find was Trundle who may
seem like little more than a pawn of Lissandra but shows remarkable
intelligence (for a troll). 
